Codebook:

This sample is based on the Human Activity Recognition Using Smartphones Dataset (Jorge L. Reyes-Ortiz, Alessandro Ghio, Luca Oneto, Davide Anguita. November 2012). The data were downloaded from this link: https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip 
A full description of how the data were collected is available at the site: http://archive.ics.uci.edu/ml/datasets/Human+Activity+Recognition+Using+Smartphones 
Raw data: The data subject_train.txt (subject of training set), X_train.txt (measures of the training set), y_train.txt (activity labels of the training set), subject_test.txt (subjects of the test set), X_test.txt (measures of the test set), y_test.txt (activity labels of the test set), features.txt(meassures labels), activity_labels.txt(activity labels)  were loaded into R.

Processed Data: subject_train.txt (subject of training set), X_train.txt (measures of the training set), y_train.txt (activity labels of the training set) were merged by cbind. The same was done for the test set. The two datasets were merged together by rbind. I named the first column, which contained the subjects, “volunteerid”. The Second column, which contained the activity labels, was named “activity”. The data was ordered by volunteerid and activity. Both columns were converted into factor variables for data manipulation with the dplyr package. The activity labels were given appropriate names from activity_labels.txt. The variables were given appropriate names from feature.txt. According to the lectures by Jeffrey Leek from Getting and Cleaning Data week 4 all upper case letters were converted into lower case letters. All extra signs like “(“, ”)”, “_” and “–“ were removed later on. According to the instructions I used select from the dplyr package to extract only the measures with mean and standard deviation. The data were grouped by volunteered and activity using grouped by and summarised from the dplyr packages to get the average for each individual and activity. An additional column named “number of observation” was created containing all the numbers for each row, which were available for the calculation. The data is now in a long format according to activity label and in a wide format according to the different measures.

Variables: volunteerid (containing the subjects from 1 to 30). activity (containing the activity labels: walking, walking upstairs, walking downstairs, sitting, standing, laying), number of observations (containing the count, which were available for each row), columns 4 to 69 containing the average for the different measures. Variables, which start with t, are three-dimensional signals that were calculated using the Euclidean norm. Variables, which start with f representing frequency domain signals after Fast Fourier Transformation. The letter x, y and z are used to denote 3 axial signals in the X, Y and Z directions.
